- Spring Events are one of the more used
functionalities in the framework,
but also one of the more useful.
They give developers a way for different components
to communicate and have more flexibility
with each other than the traditional method calls.
The one system leads to more flexible
and loosely coupled architectural design.
Coupling refers to a degree of knowledge
that one object has about the other object
that it interacts with.
The loose coupling architecture design can handle changes
because they reduce the dependency
between multiple components.
It reduces the risk that
the change made between one component
might create an anticipated impact
on the other component.
It simplifies testing, maintenance
and troubleshooting problems.
Another benefit of Event system
is it provides published subscribe capability.
Which means subscribers can be added
or removed at any point in time.
Event publishers and Event subscribers are not tied up
and can be used independently of each other.
Event system allows sending data
to other components effectively.
Also changes in the publisher or listener
will not affect each other
as both are independent.
They are free to make their own changes.
Event system allows invoking logic
on multiple components at the same time.
Having said that, does any pattern come to your mind?
It is the observer pattern that is well known
from the Gang of Four design patterns.
Where in the observer pattern,
we refer to observers.
In spring event system
we refer to listeners.
When we refer to subject,
we actually refer to event publisher.
So how do events compare to traditional method calls?
When one class calls methods in another class,
those classes are tightly coupled.
The more classes you have tightly coupled,
the more difficult it becomes to make a change
to one of them without having to also change several others.
Event driven are architecture also follows
an open-closed principle.
Which means open for extension,
but closed for modification.
For example.
Imagine we need to process a customer order
and depending on some criterias
send an email to the customer
or update customer reward points.
With direct method calls,
each time we need to make changes on order service.
At the same time, changes to the email service,
also effect order service.
However, by using an event system,
we can close order service for modification
by using events and we can easily
extend the behavior by implementing new listeners.
Event driven architectures allow new functionalities
to be added with no disruption of old ones
as the domain expands.